On April 13th at 8:48 in the morning, I was still six days from making my first public speech on elections. The year was 2022. At that time, I'd only for six months seriously studied the process, procedures, systems, and laws related to this sacred democratic process of choosing representatives in our constitutional republic. And in less than a fortnight, I would be asked to run for Minnesota Secretary of State. That invitation changed my life.

From my formal announcement, standing on the tailgate of a pickup truck outside the Sherburne County Government Center, on May 4th, it would only be 96 days before the results of the 2022 primary election were broadcast, where, running against the Republican Party of Minnesota candidate, as a republican, some were surprised. (cluster sentence!)

Before jumping into that story, these words ought to be put in their proper context. 

Approaching the halfway point of 2022 meant the war formally declared on December 20, 2019, as seen In 50 U.S. Code ยง1550, to protect the people and defend our constitution, was already in its third year. The world's allied militaries would have made their plans well in advance of that date, as indicated by the successful Capitulation Tour of 2017, which began in Riyadh, Saudi Arabia with Donald John Trump's participation in the sword dance, indicating Saudia Arabia coming aboard the Alliance.

Of course, in 2022, I had not yet read Derek Johnson's first book, The Midnight Rider Rides Again. And even as I write now, I haven't read the book, as it is expected later in December or in January of 2024.

But as I write this now, it is the eve of December 20th, 2023, which marks the four-year anniversary of not only that formal war declaration but also the inauguration of the United States Space Force.

In 2022, I didn't understand the global sting operation in the same way that I do now, having since done a fair bit of reading, studying, and thinking. The end goal of that, I think, is to bring about a lasting, meaningful peace on this planet. Some have suggested that because the Deep State crossed a red line, the response was necessary. But having read enough science fiction to imagine, contemplate, and look for signs (in history and otherwise), it seems like there is something bigger picture that requires the people of many nations to get along.

But, we've got to start somewhere. And what I cared about in 2022, at times to a fault, and to the detriment of relationships, including my marriage, was helping as many people as possible learn what I'd learned about how our elections, sacred as our vote represents our voice in a constitutional republic, can be manipulated in order to determine election outcomes. Can you think of a more devious way to take over a country? The war could be won without even needing to start a war.