# Chapter Two - A Glimpse of the Cyber Symposium

On April 19th I would speak in the Sherburne County Commissioner meeting. But before we go there, a bit of background will serve to locate the reader in my frame of reference.

For me, things really kicked off when I was invited to attend the Cyber Symposium, which took place in Sioux Falls, South Dakota, over the course of three days, August 10, 11, and 12 of 2021. 

In days leading up to the event, where Mike Lindell promised to reveal significant PCAP (packet capture) data, I helped a small group to advertise and invite legislators. Seven showed up from Minnesota, the most of any state. (They were not before, during, or soon after, convinced of the problems or solutions.)

On August 9, a Monday, beneath a tree filtering the midday sun, I stood next to a street lamp. Its wood beam was riddled with staples, the only remnants of lost cat notices, concert announcements, and various propaganda I imagined once littered this former forest sage. The sky must have been blue, as it is in stories like this, which tend to begin with a sweeping ray of hope, a naive enthusiasm which undoubtedly cannot last. I breathed in the mid-summer air, feeling like this was the week when our elections problems, if they weren't solved in one fell swoop, would at least lead somewhere productive. Since the troops that had shown up in Washington D.C. after (I thought) January 6, 2021 hadn't done any good (I thought), it was well past time for the people to work together on solutions.

Seeing the gray car I was expecting make its approach, I waved. When it came to a stop, I opened the passenger door and extended my hand to shake Chris's. About what you'd expect from a computer security consultant. Medium build and a friendly if reserved demeanor. He hadn't protested giving me a ride when Kim asked, which was a plus.

After putting my luggage in the backseat I sat down and passed him sixty dollars for fuel, the least I could do since flying to Sioux Falls from Minneapolis would have been pricy. With that, Chris put the car in drive. At the corner of Chicago and 56th, eighteen blocks south of a world famous intersection where not far from Powderhorn Park a powder keg had been set off the year prior, we turned left and made for the freeway. With one stop to eat snacks and stretch our legs, we would be in Sioux Falls by nightfall.

Talking to Chris was refreshing for several reasons. First, before that moment, we'd only interacted anonymously online. After my application to work at Project Veritas stalled, I had stumbled upon a group, called Minnesota First Audit, in early July, 2022, a few months after downloading the Telegram app. For those unfamiliar with the platform, Telegram not only provides channels for broadcasting information with or without comments enabled, but also provides working spaces called groups which were used to educate and organize on the topic of election audits. Shortly after joining the channel, I volunteered to become a moderator, and soon was picked to be the communications lead. While I only lasted 45 days, it was a good experience, and I met people like Nathan, Molly, Jeremy, and many others who have helped me in various ways.

Chris was there too. As I mentioned before, he worked in computer security, and as such was one of about sixty people invited to have a look at Lindell's PCAP data. As for me, I was invited through my connection to the Telegram channel. I didn't know why I was invited, but I said yes within a breath of being asked. And days later I was in a car heading for a meeting of minds on election reform.

During the next four hours, I got to know Chris and he got to know me, at least superficially. He asked why I was going to Sioux Falls, a question which I didn't have a good answer to, except that I was eager to learn more. What's more, I didn't want to miss out on what could be a revelation which resolved the present crisis of the rigged and stolen election. Chris made the reasonable suggestion to introduce myself as an independent reporter and ask people why they'd shown up.

During the next three days, there were a variety of interesting interactions and presentations, as well as twists and turns one would expect from your average spy thriller. This book won't go into those details and I will mostly set aside the Cyber Symposium. 

Before doing so, however, it's important to consider that the PCAPs may or may not have been as advertised (I was not part of the data group that was promised access, so cannot verify either way), but also, at the same time, I would reflect on later, with the help of Chris in some instances, since he was with the data people separate from myself and the other attendees, there can be more than meets the eye in these settings.

The world also met Tina Peters, as documented in Selection Code, the Mesa County Clerk from Colorado who authorized a before and after image (a forensic copy) of her Dominion Voting Systems Election Management System server for both the 2020 general election and the 2021 Grand Junction municipal election.

On the third day of the Cyber Symposium, after all the presentations were over, after I'd met and shaken Mike Lindell's hand, thanking him, I noticed Colonel Philip Waldron (retired, Army) standing in the entry hall.

Before I could get to him, someone else struck up a conversation. If I recall, it was another Colonel who on Day Two shared some interesting war stories with me. While Kim and I waited patiently, Draza Smith walked by. I said hi, gave her a hug, and thanked her for her hard work.

She had the previous day given a short update on the cruise control theory, as well as  worked alongside Col. Shawn Smith (retired, Air Force), Patrick Colbeck, and Mark Cook to set up the mock election, where, for the first time, I saw how simple it was to electronically manipulate an election.

When it was my turn to speak with Col. Waldron, I asked him a question that was prompted by a friend of mine, Andrei, in a phone call the night before. 

Andrei had said these kind of meetings are where the seeds of new ideas can grow, and that therefore it was important to call out the election for what it was, and then call for new elections.

So I asked Col. Waldron, If we do our audits and find--

That we've been duped, he finished my sentence. 

I nodded and said, Ater that, what is stopping us from immediately calling for new elections?  

Nothing, he said. 

And that was that.

Earlier that day, on stage, Col. Waldron had mentioned Executive Order 13848: Imposing Certain Sanctions in the Event of Foreign Interference in a United States Election. I don't remember what he said about it, although a recording of that talk can be found online. This Executive Order was signed by President Trump (now Commander-in-Chief Trump) on September 12, 2018. It was continued on September 10, 2019, again on September 10, 2020, then, unexpectedly to some, again by Mr. Biden on September 7, 2021, September 7, 2022, and September 7, 2023. The Executive Order contains the following words, "...constitutes an unusual and extraordinary threat to the national security..." 

Day One's video showing the financial ties certain companies had to the Chinese Communist Party also, in retrospect, seem to connect directly or indirectly to not only Executive Order 13848, but also Executive Order 13959: Addressing the Threat From Securities Investments That Finance Communist Chinese Military Companies, which again uses the phrasing, "constitutes an unusual and extraordinary threat." My brief experience in China, primarily in the capital, Beijing, starting at age 17, in 2005, which may have helped me make basic sense of that Executive Order, is discussed in the introduction of another book, (S)elections in Minnesota, written during the course of about three weeks and published on June 26, 2022, amidst the 96-day campaign for Minnesota Secretary of State which will comprise the bulk of this story.

Also of note during the Cyber Symposium was a brief interaction with Representative Eric Lucero as well as with Representative Erik Mortensen, the latter sitting apart from the Minnesota delegation. Chris was able to set up a meeting between Representative Mortensen, Dr. Frank, and himself, on Day Three, and for some reason he preferred I not take part. I didn't argue the plan. I would learn not quite a year later in a conversation at the Republication Party of Minnesota Congressional District 3 convention, that not much came from that meeting, which may have turned Representative Mortensen away from focusing on election reform. Of all the then current and 2022 class of legislators, perhaps only Representaives Nathan Wesenberg and Ben Davis have mustered the courage to speak clearly on the topic.

While this recap of the week in Sioux Falls, South Dakota, has been brief, I'll reserve the option to expand the Cyber Symposium at times in this book or in later books, given in part that I had a unique vantage as one of a handful of men and women present at all three of Mike Lindell's major election conventions, which were the Cyber Symposium, The Moment of Truth Summit, and the Election Crime Bureau, as well as being a speaker at two of them, giving me the freedom to explore a bit behind the curtain.

I'll not soon forget, for instance, early on Day One of The Moment of Truth Summit (in August of 2022), when being shown backstage by Melody to find Patrick Colbeck, we followed Col. Shawn Smith (retired, Air Force, with over 25 years active duty in space and missile operations, and more) for a few steps before he stopped, turned to me, and said, "Who are you?" (the only three words he ever said to me), and then, after receiving my reply, "Erik van Mechelen from Minnesota", carried on without further comment. Interactions like that reminded me to pay attention to how military and former military men and women operated. Even with the military occupation and continuity of operations plan under way, there were and are plenty of capable veterans and civilians joining hands to give their service beyond service or to do their civic duty. Could this be seen as training for what's to come?

Before I left the building that day, I spoke with another young man from a Midwestern state. He asked me what would come next, to which I responded that I was inspired to return home and get an audit done in Minnesota. And he said, That's fine, but how are you going to do that? To be fair, I had no idea.

