Chapter Three - Speaking Publicly For the First Time

APPLY STORY GRID APPROACH?
THEN
USE A CALENDAR THAT COINCIDES
BUT 
DOES NOT INTERFERE WITH 
LSAT PREP???
so hard to know... I am suddenly so focused on lsat prep when I have no idea how things will play out... dividing attention and time... but balance is possible...
God will take care of tomorrow...
Yeshua will take care of today
but we can be vessel for source information 
should get a little sleep if can 


By the time I first publicly spoke about elections, on April 19, 2022, there still were no proper nor complete audits done in Minnesota's 2020 election, for any race. And yet, by that time, a number of people had already made significant progress in demonstrating that something indeed was being hidden from the people. The elections were not as secure as we had been told. For instance, Rick, who I'll introduce soon enough, had figured out that 734,000 absentee ballots were not yet connected to a voter in the Statewide Voter Registration System by November 29, twenty-five days after the 2020 election and five days after the Minnesota State Canvassing Board met to certify the election. (Yes, they certified it.) James O'Keefe's work had highlighted potentially illegal ballot harvesting activities in Minneapolis. (When I asked him about this at his January 2022 event, he said it was a tough story to get.) And while a petition to stop the certification of the 2020 election had been dismissed quickly in December 2020, the details of that petition had all since proven true. WHAT ARE THESE, IF RELEVANT TO SHARE NOW.

TELL THIS STORY, BRING FORWARD FROM LATER, the SHERBURNE meeting
PULLED FROM Chapter 4 in MidwestSeeds (visualstudio)



Some people get nervous the first time. 

I was no different.

I heard my name being called and caught up with myself already approaching the podium, adjusting the microphone, scanning the commissioners. 

With only two minutes to speak, I wanted to make it count. My first sentence was a long one.

LISTEN TO IT... something about manhattan project from Jeffrey O'Donnell...


My given and family name was called and I approached the microphone. I glanced at the commissioner, Felix, who I'd happened to enter the Sherburne County Government Center alongside. I didn't know then, but he had already or was soon to announce that he would not run for re-election after serving 20 years. Since he was, it was said, one of the more independent commissioners, I'd hoped to get his attention with my words. It was April 2022 and I was about to speak in my first county commissioner meeting. Teri, or one of the others that regularly spoke, had given up their spot so I could have a chance.

On that day I spoke about the before and after images from Mesa County, Colorado, which had been unveiled in part on Day Two of the Cyber Symposium in August of 2021, which were copies of the Dominion Voting Systems Election Management System, a voting vendor and system which Sherburne County also used. I also spoke to the built-in capabilities (understood since at least 2003/4 when Bev Harris unearthed the Diebold GEMS source code online) to select candidates up and down the ballot (and then not perform proper audits to ensure legal ballots from legal voters are counted accurately). 

The punchline of Mesa Report #3 is that a duplicate database of the election in Mesa County was created, thus breaking the digital chain of custody of the election records. Therefore the election results for that county, in 2020, could not be verified. Then, a similar thing happened *again* in the Grand Junction municipal election (also overseen by Clerk Tina Peters, whose story is told in the documentary, Selection Code). If this could happen in one Dominion Voting System, it could happen in any of them, wherever they were used, including in Sherburne County.

I urged the commissioners to gather information to make informed decisions going forward. After all, it is the commissioners in Minnesota counties that under Minnesota Statute 206.58 AUTHORIZATION FOR USE Subdivision 3. Counties that have the authority to use electronic voting systems (or not to use them). 

Now, 206.58 was amended by the 93rd Minnesota Legislature to read: Once a municipality has adopted the use of an electronic voting system in one or more precincts, the municipality must continue to use an electronic voting system for state elections in those precincts. Some, including myself, were worried about this because it seems to mandate the use of electronic equipment which has been shown to facilitate fraud. 

However, it was recently pointed out by Susan in a presentation on November 14, 2023 in Buffalo that the current amended law is an example of an ex post facto law; laws cannot be drafted to take effect retroactively. When the municipalities opted to use an electronic voting system in the past, did they know that this decision could tie their hands in the future? 

In a separate conversation it was raised that there would be a way around the statute as written, which would be to draw new precincts. However, I'm in favor of challenging the amended law in that I agree it is ex post facto. The statute cannot stand as written *or* municipalities need to be given the choice to decide for the next election whether they want to bind themselves to electronic voting systems so long as the statute exists.

When this amended law plus the amended Chapter 13 statutes banning the release of the ballot image portion of the cast vote records was shared with the Anoka County commissioners in Summer 2023, I believe that a few of them finally understood the gravity of the concerns the people there had been sharing meeting after meeting.

This would not be the only Sherburne County commissioner meeting that I would attend, nor the most interesting.

On July 12, 2022, the Office of the Secretary of State sent their number two man, David Maeda, to speak along with the Sherburne County Auditor, during a county commissioner meeting, about whether the new Dominion voting sytem was indeed a new voting system or not. In the public comment, Rick explained how it was, followed up by several additional speeches on same. A point picked up (visually) by the papers was a large 65-mile-per-hour speed limit sign to emphasize that ignorance of the law does not prevent one from breaking it. 

In the prior couple of weeks, in a matter of days, two people had informed the cities and townships across Sherburne County that they had not given the statute-required 60-day notice nor public demonstration of the new electronic voting system. 

In the July 12, 2022 meeting Gary spoke about the history of 4.14E and the purchase of 5.15C, a clearly new system as Rick would also explain. 

This argument, made with documents from the Election Assistance Commission confirming that going from 4.14 to 5.15 constitutes a new system, was the crux of a Minnesota Supreme Court filing, case number A22-1081, Kieffer v. Governing Body of Municipality of Rosemount, which was dismissed on laches, not with prejudice, prior to the August 9, 2022 primary elections in Minnesota.

As a statewide candidate for Minnesota Secretary of State, I also signed onto this case. Sherburne County as well as its municipalities used the new Dominion system in the 2022 primary election.

Separate from the point of this case, which is that election law wasn't followed, a news story developed when Drew was attacked by the son of a council member in Rosemount when serving papers. (In future, issues, concerns, complaints, and the like should be able to be made directly with the Office of the Secretary of State, with the Minnesota Secretary of State representing the state's chief election officer, to avoid awkward and dangerous situations of service as occurred in Rosemount that evening. This goes for election contests as well, which are very difficult to file within a window with the constraints of delivering service.)

Over a year later, minutes before his trial on September 11, 2023, Drew was pressed by the prosecution to settle, but he did not. And then the case was dropped by the prosecution pursuant to Minnesota Statute 30.01. 

Was this entire case meant to punish this man (and his family) for simply helping to deliver service on a case which rightly shined a light where Minnesota statutes with regard to elections were not being followed? 

There is a bigger point to make, in a subsequent chapter, about the pressure asserted against those trying to get to the truth, related to the primary author of the petition in A22-1081.

MOVE THIS TO APPROPRIATE CHAPTER (LATER, IN CHRONOLOGICAL ORDER)
But now, back to the July 12, 2022 commissiooner meeting...

After the meeting's conclusion, a crowd gathered around David Maeda to ask more questions. I was on the edge, so only learned later what was said, which was an admission according to those who heard that he might have inadvertently misled people by his comments in the commissioner meeting, or misunderstood the point of the matter regarding the new system. 

Meanwhile I was nearby and struck up a conversation with the county administrator. He told me that the commissioners were happy with the risks of the Dominion systems. He also said that by asking for a public hearing on the matter of electronic voting systems in general, that we were asking for the wrong thing. It was a reminder that when working with government (never forget that the people are the government), the right language, definitions, and terminology should be understood and used. As was demonstrated that day, in my opinion, the representative of the Office of the Secretary of State got caught off guard because those speaking in favor of following the statute had done their homework and used language that he could not properly counter. David Maeda was seen leaving the building toward the parking lot, already on the phone, perhaps with the Office of the Secretary of State.

A22-1081 was soon filed in Rosemount and the Minnesota Secretary of State responded to the case, arguing essentially over the definition of 'new'. 

As ever, the people working for transparency, for legal ballots from legal voters to be counted, for oversight in the absentee ballot process, just want the laws on the books to be followed, because those laws are there to protect all voters and the trustworthiness of the election process itself.

also met Dean (but he may not want to be mentioned...)


THEN 

Five days later, my friend Andrei called. 

You care about election integrity. So why don't you run for Secretary of State?

The question reverberated through me while instead of answering the question, I simply chuckled nervously. One objection, which I didn't voice at the time, was this: How could I possibly win what could easily be another rigged election? 

And yet, even though I didn't decide right there and then, not with full conviction, it was that question which planted the seed for the decision that changed my life forever. 








If first article makes good arguments, then keep pointing to it. Saves time. 

Recently reflected on many of opposing side's arguments made throughout recent years, realized something: 

Most of their arguments are invalid or make big assumptions. (They only work when reader/listener cannot think logically.) 

3 examples below for which this group is familiar: 

"Most secure election ever" from some high ranking person. That's an argument from authority which has no bearing on the whether statement is true or false with available indicators/evidence/information.

"We use Logic and Accuracy Tests two weeks before election." They hope reader makes assumption that LATs use appropriate testing threshold to be statistically significant. They hope reader assumes LATs are done to all machines/tabulators. They hope reader assumes no changes are made to equipment prior to election. 

"Postelection reviews showed xyz% accuracy." PERs are done at specified time and place DAYS after the election and only test a tiny number of ballot positions. PERs can't verify validity of ballot nor chain of custody of a mail-in ballot. Again, the argument's conclusion is weakened when assumptions present in the premises are called out. 

Secretary Simon and company are in a bad position, which will break if it hasn't already broken. He may have been on the cover of Time magazine, but his time is coming...

Erik van Mechelen

PS It's really going to be something if it turns out they were all being watched the entire time, which I think is not only possible but highly likely. (See Executive Order 13848, signed Sept 12, 2018, in advance of BOTH 2018 midterms and 2020 general, which was extended several times by both CIC Trump and "Biden".)

Sent with Proton Mail secure email.

On Friday, December 29th, 2023 at 7:58 AM, Peter Hartmark <hartmarkpd@gmail.com> wrote:


> Yes, and we should engage only when it benefits us and election integrity.
> In the meantime, we keep pounding away….
> Sent from my iPhone
> 
> > On Dec 29, 2023, at 7:06 AM, DEREK LIND derek.lind@comcast.net wrote:
> > 
> > That is what I think too. They are pushing back now because they have to. But it wont work.
> > 
> > I also think they want to engage.
> > 
> > > On 12/28/2023 10:26 PM CST Peter Hartmark hartmarkpd@gmail.com wrote:
> > > 
> > > It’s coordinated talking points by democrat operatives. ACEIT got the attention of the DFL machine and now Simon and his minions want to discredit any questions/concerns about election integrity.
> > > Sent from my iPhone
> > > 
> > > > > On Dec 28, 2023, at 9:41 PM, DEREK LIND derek.lind@comcast.net wrote:
> > > > 
> > > > We are winning this narrative.
> > > > 
> > > > This guys starts off by saying that 60% of the public doesn't trust the elections. That is one of our main arguments and he just did us a favor by repeating it in the paper for us again!
> > > > 
> > > > Once you hit the 60% mark its virtually impossible to turn that ship around because others tend to follow the herd.
> > > > 
> > > > These clowns wrote 4 letters already. It shouldn't take 4 letters to make your point. We did it in just 1 short letter. At the end of the day its a binary choice and the public will have to chose between our side or theirs. This disparity is growing.
> > > > 
> > > > If Trump can influence 60% of the people that the election was stolen then how did Trump lose the 2020 election to begin with?
> > > > 
> > > > We stay silent and point to our first letter and hope they keep writing more.
> > > > 
> > > > We are in the narrative business now. This is a lot easier than the proof business when they hid everything anyways.
> > > > 
> > > > My question is where is their motivation coming from? Is it just 3 clowns who like to mix is up in a conservative Anoka county and take the minority? If so, why now?
> > > > <20231228_184752.pdf>

check external hard drive for timelines, videos, etc.
also "Mike Lindell's Cyber Symposium" Scrivener file 

check 02_chapter_two.txt of midwest seeds for possible additions about the telegram groups... 

I think it was Shakespeare who said  all the world's a stage.  Suggesting that  men and women and children  were all just actors  in this life. 

And the question is, what story  are we playing a part of? 

But, 

was Shakespeare  even really Shakespeare?  Or,  was Shakespeare  A creation  of a group  managed by Sir Francis Bacon, 

an early example  of  narrative control.  Perhaps. 

It's a reminder.  I, I, I bring this up  because  throughout the story I will mention various names. 

Those names 

strike me as important in some way for them to be included, 

but the reader should be wary of  assigning  too much value  or connotation to 

their inclusion. 

For instance, 

a name may be brought up. 

As a contributor of a particular piece of information  to the way that I understand elections. 

But  it does not follow  that  that individual is necessarily one of the good guys. 

Because I happen to learn that piece of information from him. 

The simple fact is,  from my perspective,  with 

my still nascent research capabilities,  that 

it takes  some effort and time 

to sort out what people are up to, 

and certainly on the national stage, for instance, in Congress, 

where I am persuaded, again, by Derek Johnson's work,  which points to Federal Continuity Directives 1 and 2, that there is a Continuity of Operations Plan  in place,  and therefore, there is some  necessary  Stage acting 

taking place  in order to  essentially  keep the piece and keep things appearing as though they are going along. 

Now, I do not know how many of the people that I've interacted with are essentially actors. 

But, 

I did try to apply what a friend  offered me,  what a friend Nathan offered me, 

which was a checklist, 

which included 

investigating  someone's motivations. 

I made  quite a few decisions about who to interact with based upon 

Clear, or 

based upon a,  an understanding of their stated or shown motivations. 

Once again,  to emphasize,  in order to get  close to an enemy, it would require that one look like  and  feel like  one of those.  And so,  I'm not going to spend a lot of time,  I'm going to spend little time,  in this story,  of trying to sort that out. 

Even though, 

sorting that out, 

is important, 

to some degree, to avoid  falling into traps.

​BUT ONE PERSON I DO HAVE A GOOD FEELING ABOUT IS... RICK WEIBLE 
CAN USE THIS WHEN RICK WEIBLE BROUGHT IN, on MAY 4th
(below pasted from 01_chapter_one.txt in midwestseeds visualstudio)

This was how I joined one of America's largest investigations.

It was evening on October 13, 2021 at the Ramsey City Hall. Incredibly, almost a year had passed since November 3, 2020, and my education was only just beginning: finally, I'd decided to attend an in-person event about election reform.

There I soon met Teri, who was organizing this ‘I Thought I Voted’-sponsored event, where Rick would soon present. The videographer was missing, and since there was a newly-purchased video camera hanging around my neck I offered to take his place. I was new to this, though: from a chair near the front, stage right, without a tripod, the camera shook a bit in my hands as Rick began to speak.

Before and since, to a variety of audiences, Rick has described himself as a tax refugee from Minnesota, living just over the border in South Dakota. In the aughts and teens, he was on the city council and then mayor of a small town, St. Bonifacius, on the edge Hennepin County, MN. In 2016 hacked into the converted iPads during KnowInk's epollbook pitch and therefore declined the contract (the only municipality in the county to do so). In addition to a comprehension of election equipment, election statutes, and election process and procedures, his involvement in the Minnesota Republican Party gave him political experience. And he also knew about computers. If they worked, he said, he wouldn't have a computer security business. Rick is humble, kind, competent, and stands in a Biblical foundation, occasionally quoting the likes of James 1:25 in an inviting way. But don't let your compassionate nature fool you. He is more than capable of expressing himself and perhaps only temperance has stayed his hand when others may have lost their cool. 

Since that time, Rick did many things, perhaps most significant of which was working with a team which succeeded in getting ES&S executives at the Nebraska headquarters to admit that cast vote record functionality does in fact exist in all their tabulators. Rick was also, ironically it could be said, *appointed* to city council in Elkton and in November 2023 filed to run for South Dakota House of Representatives in 2024.

That evening way back in 2021 he spoke first about expectations that the public has, or should have, from local government. Expectations may be justifiably low, but why shouldn't they be high? And is it not true that how the government runs elections is an indicator of how well everything else is done?

Of particular interest to me was the fact that on November 29, 2020, about 734,000 absentee ballots were not connected with voters in the Statewide Voter Registration System 25 days after the election, and worse, five days after the Minnesota State Canvassing Board had certified Minnesota's results. (It is not required in statute for this to be done, but it is unclear how the results could be verified properly without such basic work being complete, in particular once learning that it takes a few computer clicks, at most, to accomplish this task.)

Since that night, Rick and I have spoken reguarly, if not often, after he started to share more about what he was up to when I started going to commissioner meetings in Dakota County. Mostly, I have reported on the work he has done and the work he has inspired others to do.

Chatting with Teri after, she asked if I knew the shorter woman who had happened to walk in the same time as me (we weren't together), because early on in the talk she had from the front row turned around and scanned the room with her phone. This was a reminder that this work was going to involve some interesting characters, a reality already experienced at the Cyber Symposium.

Before leaving, I'd hoped to thank Rick for his presentation and more properly introduce myself, but there was another man in a lengthy discussion with him. I didn't know him then, but it was Tom, who would later become the Elections Manager in Anoka County. I also didn't know then that I was to spend a bit of time at the Anoka County Government Center alongside the Anoka County Election Integrity Team (ACEIT). But that would come almost 15 months later at the beginning of 2023.

Not long after, I attended an event in Rosemount put on by Bill where Rick was joined by Susan. I learned later these two spoke often on the phone, which made sense given their backgrounds and areas of expertise. Susan provided much-needed expertise on Minnesota Statutes, often filling an entire slide with text. At first I wondered whether it might be easier to pull snippets from the statutes to focus our attention, but later I realized that the context is key. Just as it is fraught to take Bible verses out of context, statutes should be read carefully to fully take in the language, definitions, and terminology.