  Why did it take me so long to announce that I was running for secretary of state,  a chief election officer in Minnesota? 

The idea was first suggested in April, late April,  by my friend Andre.  When I shared the idea with my wife,  she wasn't thrilled  and she had questions. 

I did not take much time to describe why,  at least not in a clear way, 

but I think what made  things more difficult was my decision to go all in. 

I shortly thereafter notified my various  writing clients  that I'd be taking a break to run  state.  And so I could not continue on those projects. 

Of course that had the effect  of 

showing that I was not committed to those projects  while also,  while also  cutting my main sources of income.  At the time I reasoned  if 

At the time I reasoned, regardless of  whether I made it past the primary or not,  I could reassess the situation in three months time.  Surely I'd be able to pick up work again  because  I'd been able to find that work the first time,  or in the first place. 

This kind of  positive reinforcing reasoning,  which some have called,  um, some have called  illusion,  uh, illusionary thinking,  has nevertheless,  uh, has nevertheless  led me to take risks which others may not have taken. 

So long as one is confident and resourceful enough,  things can work out okay.  That said, I'm not suggesting  anyone  quit their job  to run for office.  As an aside,  in 2024 and beyond, I think it's more than possible for 

Men and women to be our representatives while also carrying on other jobs.  Or perhaps by taking a reduced role in their current careers.  While they essentially take a turn in public office. Representing the people  in our constitutional republic. 

Where?  Those representatives  are what they are. Representatives and servants of the people who pay them. 

As it was,  the campaign for Secretary of State started off with hesitancy on my part.  Because, I think,  deep down,  I understood I was not only taking a risk financially, but taking a risk.  With my marriage.  What would happen  if things didn't go well? 

What  did success even look like? 

When Andre had suggested the idea, I kind of chuckled because  what's the point  of trying to win a rigged election? 

I would later explain 

I would explain I explained only a couple of weeks later  to David Clements  this exact point  when before he spoke to a group in Minneapolis at Studio Time Out,  I mentioned that I was at the Cyber Symposium  and  crouching behind the podium facing away from the crowd  to protect  against lip readers.  I said,  I'm not running for secretary of state because I think I can win a rigged election. 

Later that week  in Rochester,  he would tell me and a small group  that when he was invited to meet Trump, he told him, I know you're the commander in chief. This was in 2021  to which. 

The then Commander in Chief Trump,  the then and current Commander in Chief Trump  smiled.  I imagine he smiled and said, would you like to go to dinner? 

And so 

reflecting 

something about how I trust David more now, because I know that he's doing what he's doing to help people learn,  even while he knows that the elections are completely rigged.  And if he knows that 

Donald J. Trump, Donald John Trump is a Commander in Chief, then, 

and also  he studied all of the legal cases  and found them to be fine, right? So  he would have understood the depth of the problem  and been able to draw those conclusions. And maybe he's read Derek Johnson's similar kind of work, maybe he hasn't, I don't know.  Um,  any case, just a point about  sorting through  David Clemens as, you know, someone who's  on the good in this,  um, even while like certainly drawing a lot of attention to himself with this, let my people go.

I think  if he knew that 

Donald J. Trump was the commander in chief already and told him so.  That builds a lot of trust from the Commander in Chief  and having someone like David be  on the civilian side of this  to help educate people has been,  it's hard to know where we'd be without someone like David  to clarify things and help, uh, invite people to think for themselves on this matter. 

And to also show up at their county commissioner meetings. 

One phone call I received during this hesitant period was from Jake Duesenberg,  the Action for Liberty founder. 

He gave me some brief tips  and also suggested that I get some literature so as to be taken seriously at the convention.  And so, I spent about 1, 000 working with someone  he recommended both from design and from printing perspective. 

I was not able to use that literature at the convention, as we'll get to.  Although, I did pass out a number of the signs that I also ordered.  Designed by  an online friend from Canada named Kevin. Who cleverly  input the Morse code for truth into  the  yard sign, into the poster. 

One of Jake's posts, along with encouragement from others, was part of the reason that I actually went to precinct caucuses to begin with.  Which led up to.  The cd5 show in April. 

That context is important 

because  if I wasn't going to win a rigged election, what was I to learn  by running for Minnesota Secretary of State  in part  that this this story.  Is there to share some of those things that I learned? 

Things like 

there's a lot of money in politics. Elections are indeed rigged. 

There's 

people clinging to power who are probably involved in some dark shit. 

There are a number of people that  are responsible and do want accountability.  And that the people in those positions of power are actually willing to break the law  to,  to silence them. 

And  probably most importantly, the political parties are there to control  which candidates are even an option on the table in our elections.  Leading to 

the common, uh,  Occurrence that voters  face, which is  the  choice between two evils 

at the macro level, the choice between two evils  or a Democrat candidate or Republican candidate, 

since the unit party  has dominated  politics for some time, 

most choices, even if there were. a clean election would be between two bad  candidates. 

But having given you the conclusion up front, I'd like to go into detail on each of these as we proceed  through,  uh, the short  three months  and change  of my Minnesota Secretary of State campaign. 