
MAY 4th ANNOUNCEMENT

After the announcement  from the back of the pickup  with the don't  tread on me and American flag  on my flanks, 

not quite the  judge advocate general and military intelligence that Trump had at his inauguration, but still a pretty cool scene, 

we, uh, we went inside  to  once again, uh, Let the commissioners know that it wasn't okay for them to continue using Dominion  voting systems. 

Interestingly,  Mike Murphy did not join us  as  Terry  and others had hoped he would.  Seeing as he was a governor,  a governor candidate  at the time.  And one of the front runners from the perspective of the grassroots  advocates,  because  he at least would speak to, 

for instance, the ballot harvesting in Minneapolis, which when I asked 

James O'Keefe about  during our photo op backstage at the January 2022  Project Veritas event in Miami,  he said, was a tough story to get. 

But Mike Murphy's decision not to show his face publicly in and go on the record  in the  Commissioner board meeting during that public comment period.  Was an interesting,  interesting, um, moment of inaction  and a lack of, of courage and conviction. 

Which I noted, and do note, for  a number of,  and did note, for a number of,  Politicians, representatives and would be  candidates  because it is easy to talk and  more difficult to take action,  and everyone knows it's the actions that count  most of the time. 

what Mike Murphy's. campaign manager, I believe his name is Don,  who I later at the convention  suggested once Drew brought me to him backstage that they go to the primary  instead of cutting a deal  blew me off. 

I  was recommended to make sure I get the signatures. 

Oh, the signatures.  Rick Weibel had suggested I get the signatures too.  Basically, 

to become an endorsed candidate by the Republican Party underneath their constitution, bylaws, and rules for the convention,  and the rules established by the nominating committee, 

one can become a candidate only by going through certain hoops. One of these hoops is to gather signatures from  delegates, not alternates, delegates  of  the state convention  for the Republican Party. 

That particular body  is voted upon by  local level, basic political organizing unit delegates,  which were decided by between February and March  in the various Republican,  uh, BPLUs across the counties of Minnesota. 

I was a state convention delegate,  so  my signature would have been one of the, of about 45 that I would need  in order  to  be considered by the nominating committee. 

Those signatures would need to, by the proposed rules,  because keep in mind the rules of the convention do not become the rules until the state convention at the meeting adopts those rules. And that doesn't happen,  uh, necessarily very quickly. It can be a couple of hours or more before the rules are actually formally adopted. 

And so,  by the proposed rules,  there was an artificial deadline put of  May 6th, ahead of the May 12th convention,  for these signatures. 

As the  deadline quickly approached,  after my delayed announcement on May 4th, 

I was  in a rush to get those signatures.  Even though I'd announced  my candidacy from the back of a pickup, satisfying one of the nominating committee's  requirements,  very few people knew that I was running.  I hadn't been going around to the BPOUs talking about my plans to run, and so the state convention delegates didn't have a chance to learn who I was in  the  traditional way. 

The reason that I delayed everything, as a reminder, was because I was hoping that Kim or Kelly would start to speak about election reform.  in a way that reflected the reality of,  uh, our badly broken election systems. 

But after investigating their websites, 

and speaking with some of  their campaigns  at the CD3 convention, in the case of Kim's,  And reflecting on what Kelly had shared at the CD5 convention in April  and in chatting with a few more people who were more familiar with their campaigns,  like Rick, who said that their campaigns weren't really using their information like they could,  it became apparent that if anyone was going to speak clearly about this, That it might be me. 

Furthermore, Philip Parrish,  21 years retired,  Lieutenant Commander in the Navy,  had some months before decided not to run. 

As far as it looked to me, both Kim and Kelly would represent  an establishment  viewpoint.  And fall in line with the Republican Party insiders at the end of the day.  Which would help no one. 

We will get to  the convention and what I learned there. Which  should help to give the reader more evidence that this  preliminary conclusion was true. 

Or was. accurate. 

A couple days, um, 

so even after their proposed  rules deadline for the signatures passed on the 6th,  I was trying to get signatures. 

So I went to the governor debate put on by I think SD 35, but it might be another SD 32 perhaps.  We're three of the governor candidates out of six showed up. 

That's where I first got to speak with Neil for a few minutes, one on one before the event started explaining that we wouldn't, we weren't able to get the Cassville records. He asked, well, couldn't you sue for them?  And the answer to that is yes. And that had  started to be done across the country.  And to this day in  2023,  late 2023,  there is still,  or there was a recent outcome of a case in Rice County,  trying to get some basic information,  but check if that is actually the CVR or if that's  a smaller side issue, but it's relating to data practices. 

And data requests about who's a responsible authority when requests are sent. 

And  Neil did mention during his 

speaking time  that there was an investigative journalist in the audience who was looking into these kinds of things. 

I think Neil did.  A good job during his campaign and got a lot of people,  especially grassroots motivated.  And from the perspective  of  his performance at the convention, I think out of  all the governor candidates, he's the only one that  retained my respect.  Um,  did he speak as strongly as I would have?  On election reform, not, not at all,  but I do think he  was aware  of, of the issues in a way that,  um, others didn't care to become informed  and  he would demonstrate that by sitting down with me for a podcast some months later. 

So, I didn't get the signatures I needed.  I ended up somewhere around half of what I needed. 

And so I had a decision to make when I went to Rochester, which was, Was I going to make a big deal of this? Or, was I simply going to go as a delegate 

and observe what I observed and learn what I learned? 

It's possible that I could have done both,  but I chose the latter option. 

Susan, who I should mention here if we haven't, and look at  chapter underscore two underscore, or text, in MN Elections,  for a description of Susan,  and put her accolades and her petition and her work.  Susan said,  I actually might have worked out better because if I'd been part of the endorsement process, I might have  been influenced to sign  a form that said I would not go to the primary if I lost the endorsement. 

And then the endorsement process could have been rigged against me if I even had the support.  And so, it worked out in such a way that I was able to go to the primary after the Convention,  which had the effect of  moving the needle on election  reform, more so, and also exposing that the GOP didn't care about election reform. 

So in summary, my hesitancy,  not only with my wife and making this decision,  led to me not having my ducks in a row with the signatures. 

Which put me at a little bit of a disadvantage when it came  to the primary. 