# Chapter Four - To Run or Not

On that day and the next three, I published four articles on my Substack page. With each post, a email was generated to a steadily growing list. The first was recapping the Sherburne County commissioner meeting open forum. The second focused on how only six of eighty-seven Minnesota counties had election machines that were certified by the Election Assistance Commission (EAC). The third asked whether Minnesota’s 2020 election should have been certified. And the last touched on SF4217, a Minnesota senate bill which added language about intimidation and interference related to the performance of duties by an election official.

It felt good to study up and share what I was learning along the way. At times, the writing felt rushed. But hey!, I was excited to get this information into others’ hands. I hadn’t been trained as a journalist, so I often strayed into opinion. I also wasn’t well trained in the trivium—grammar, logic, and rhetoric—so I was more than once tempted into stating weakly supported conclusions instead of properly building up an argument. To top it off, I wasn’t a particularly careful editor. On one occasion, after I’d posted a short story (partly fictional), a reader, bless her heart, took a moment to alert me to the fact that I had not edited my work. She was right. But I was nothing if I wasn’t determined to make a difference, so the writing kept flowing.

Altogether, those four short articles earned nine new free subscriptions. Combined with a post from April 3rd, titled ‘The CD5 Show’, describing the spectacle I’d witnessed and participated in at the Minnesota Republican Party Congressional District 5 Convention, where Royce White had challenged the MNGOP-backed Cicely Davis, which added seventeen subs, I was on a bit of a roll from that perspective. It showed that some people did care about fixing their country, starting with their own backyard, and maybe those subscriptions were a vote of confidence in what I was spending quite a bit of time doing: mostly reading, asking questions, and writing. 

A month earlier, I hadn’t known that Cicely was essentially a fake candidate, as was Sami Cisman, as well as Marisa Simonetti in 2024. It was perplexing to some to see establishment figures first create and then prop up these candidates. In the latter case media organizations many conservatives read like Alpha News also promoted Marisa with more than one article leaving out that she was a known criminal. Alpha had already proved on several occasions their slant, notably to me their take on the Otter Tail delegates, which we will come to. 

As for these fake candidates, articles on Alpha about Simonetti appeared in 2024 from Hank Long—omitting Simonetti’s criminal history. Long is related to Ryan Wilson, the 2022 state auditor candidate who went unopposed, worth noting because the establishment usually challenges candidates that aren’t on side with them. Wilson narrowly missed in his election but didn’t seem interested in filing a contest or pursuing a recount. Later, his campaign manager Jennifer Dejournett, supported by the American Experiment, would go around Minnesota claiming that out-state mail-in voters didn’t vote enough to justify the ballot-in ballot-out strategy, which is essentially an early-voting scheme which helps to maintain the status quo by providing early data to anyone with access in the 46 days prior to our actual election day. With early data, it is known where ballots can be stuffed, as just one tool among hundreds to manipulate an election outcome. 

Also at that time I didn’t know that Royce White would go onto win the Republican Party of Minnesota US Senate endorsement two years later, on May 18, 2024—only for the old guard to run their candidate against him—and it was a great day to witness. I couldn’t have said it better than my friend, Carol Hexum, who on the phone a couple weeks after the fact recalled: It was a highlight to see the establishment stepping down off the stage as we stepped onto it—Carol and others wearing the I support!! OTC 37 t-shirt, 2024 delegates from Otter Tail County left out by fiat from the Party leaders, had been invited onstage by Royce only minutes before the endorsement result, 67 percent on the first ballot, were announced. In his own recap, Royce concluded: If our freedom is to have boundaries, they'll be set by our sacred honor, not establishment corruption. We want boundaries for our country, we want borders for our country, not for our minds and spirit.

As I pushed the content about the CD5 Show, the EAC certifications, and the Sherburne County commissioner meeting onto my Telegram channels, though, I wondered if any of it was worth it. The commissioners’ blank stares from three days prior flashed through my mind, which prompted me to open a new tab on my computer’s browser to watch the speech again. It was okay, I thought, but once I reached the part where my lobster hands started snapping at thin air, I had to avert my eyes.

*** 

Downstairs, I spoke again with Liz. “I think I’ll have to decide after this weekend, latest. The convention is coming up.” By convention, I meant the MNGOP convention in Rochester where the state convention delegates would vote on who would become an endorsed candidate of the party for governor, attorney general, secretary of state, and state auditor. I was one of those delegates, having been elected by the BPOU delegates of Senate District 63, themselves elected at the February precinct caucuses, a statutory meeting which was the beginning of election season and was a statutory requirement for major parties in Minnesota.

“Is there any way to find out for sure whether Kim and Kelly won’t be carrying this cause already?” The idea being I could help them with what I was learning.
I really didn’t see how either Kim or Kelly would find the courage that I felt they were lacking. And Rick had already said they weren’t using the data he’d provided. To their credit, Kim spoke about voter ID and recruited a large number of election judges. Kelly spoke at the CD5 convention about Judge Sarah Grewing, likely with Susan’s coaching. But if they hadn’t spoken yet about what I and many others had learned, while trying to win favor with BPOU delegates at various meetings, when would they? “Well, I could go to the CD3 convention for a bit more recon.” 

***

It was three days later, on Saturday. From my parking space at Wayzata Senior High School, I could already see the various colored campaign signs and t-shirts worn by people entering the building. Inside was a line to check in, where I saw one of the lesser-known attorney general candidates, who I’d recently received an email from asking for delegate signatures. 

I moved around the line to see if I could find a table for Kim or Kelly. Turned out neither was there yet since their speaking slots were still aways off. After sitting to speak with a man about election integrity, I spotted Representative Erik Mortensen and rose to meet him. 

At the Cyber Symposium I only had two interactions with legislators even though seven had made the trip over the South Dakota border, perhaps being influenced by significant prompting from the Minnesota First Audits group. The first was with Representative Eric Lucero, which was an awkward conversation where after introducing myself as a writer he asked me who I wrote for and I responded ominously that I wrote for no-one. (Later in February 2022, at an event that Michelle Lentz, from Telegram, invited me to where I also met Dale Witherington for the first time, who was singing Cicely Davis’s praises—when he led with she is black and a Christian, I replied simply that I didn’t care about people’s skin color—I actually donated to Eric Lucero, but when I brought up election integrity, he didn’t really have anything to say. My opinion of Eric was only confirmed from there on out. Someone like him who speaks well is dangerous because run-of-the-mill conservatives will support him based on his articulateness of issues they agree with, while realizing that by omission he is leaving out critical issues like election reform. But he is not alone… as of this writing in 2024 there are only perhaps four out of 201 legislators that I believe would get behind a serious election integrity reform bill, were it brought in the MN House or Senate.) 

Erik Mortensen sat apart from the Minnesota delegation at the symposium. I sat next to him for a bit on Day 3. Also on that day, Chris, from the Telegram group, who’d given me a ride from Minneapolis to Sioux Falls, was able to set up a meeting between Representative Mortensen, Dr. Frank, and himself. For some reason Chris preferred I not take part but I didn't argue the plan since I was happy that there might be some traction with a legislator after all. And from a constitutional perspective, it is the legislature of each state which determines the time, place, and manner of elections. 

On this occasion, at the CD3 convention, I would learn that not only did not much came from that meeting, but that Representative Mortensen was a bit put off by the lack of followup from Dr. Frank. Perhaps he just got busy. Because I wasn’t in the meeting, I wasn’t able to keep either accountable to whatever might have been agreed. But maybe that’s what pushed Representative Mortensen away from focusing on election reform. He did phone me a few times after the 2022 election and in 2024 became the President of Action 4 Liberty, an organization I’m still hopeful will one day take up the banner of election reform, though I’m not sure if their underlying philosophy is compatible with that cause, but this can change. Of all the then-current and 2022 class of legislators, it was only Representative Nathan Wesenberg and Representative Ben Davis who by my witness mustered the courage to study and speak clearly on the topic, though others may have shown potential that I missed. Former representatives like Mark Olson spoke clearly about the topic with me when we were recapping the 2024 MNGOP State Convention in St. Paul and I recently missed an opportunity to speak with Representative Cal Bahr when we both attended the first Royce White town hall hosted by SD31 and 35 at the VFW in Coon Rapids, who people I trust have spoken well about regarding election integrity.

While speaking with Representative Mortensen, I saw that two women were now at the Kelly for SOS table. Since Kelly wouldn’t be there until later, closer to when she would speak in the convention, I asked them a few questions. The gist was, Yes, Kelly knew quite a bit about election problems and the potential reforms that were possible—she just wasn’t speaking about any of them. It crossed my mind: What was she running for then?

I ran into Winnie Miller, who after reading my ‘The CD5 Show’ post, had met with me at Guava’s. At that time I think she was starting to see how bad things were, from inside the party. I think she may have shared the post with Barb and Randy Sutter, which would have put me on their radar already at that point. Cicely ignored me, which made sense if she’d read the post, although she had said to email her—her non-campaign email if I recall—what I’d learned, but I did not. I don’t know whether Cicely would have done anything with the information because I didn’t send it. 

In a bit of a foul mood now, I firmly rejected an elderly man trying to hand me campaign material. Fortunately, Jonathan Mason, Royce White’s campaign manager, saved me. He said, “I’ll take one!” I smiled, asked him how things were going, and then said I better be going. 

On my way out, I noticed a few people with clipboards, apparently collecting those much-needed delegate signatures. I frowned at the missed opportunity. Why hadn’t I just brought some pages along and started to collect them here? Instead, I’d come here to discover what I’d already known, that at least from the perspective of a Republican secretary of state candidate, it was not going to be Kim nor Kelly who shouted from the rooftops about election fraud and reform. 
Erik, if not you, then who?

***

The next day, on April 24th at 3:10:08pm I sent Nathan a message: Nathan, I’ve learned much from you. Even as I could not while on the phone last weekend describe why I’m likely running for SOS, I’d like to keep you updated. Continued recon has not improved my opinion of the outlook of current SOS candidates. I would have preferred someone like Phillip Parrish, but he backed out in October 2021. Someone needs to speak about machines, and not only that. 

Here is a preliminary website, concurrently taking feedback from several trusted individuals. Site is live but I will not announce until a final decision is made. I welcome any and all of your thoughts.

(Also, Prof C will be in Minnesota around May 11, hope to link up with him. Would be good to see you as well.)


