# Chapter Three - Sherburne

It was the two hundred forty-seventh anniversary of the shot heard round the world at the Battle of Lexington and Concord and 817 days prior to the “attempt” on Trump’s life in Butler, Pennsylvania—which seemed to connect to Q post 559, 560, 572, and 659. 
Turning off U.S. Route 10 in Elk River, the Sherburne County Government Center came into view, its hulk breaching the Elk River landscape. Taking in the clenched fist of its looming structure, my heartbeat increased and my breathing quickened as I turned into the drive beneath chilled, overcast skies.

While parking, I noticed a group of men and women standing in a tight circle. They finished praying as I approached. 

Teri recognized me, and I her. As she had in our first meeting the previous fall, Teri spoke in an enthusiastic tone. “Will you speak today? You know this stuff.”

Teri had been important to set up events like that first one I attended, which allowed me to take that dangerous step into changing my worldview. But up until today, I had passed on opportunities to speak forthrightly about what I’d learned. I didn’t like that I’d missed those chances, but I’d had to live with it. With each passing day, knowing that something in this world was deeply wrong, meant that the at first small voice within grew louder and louder to the point I could not ignore it.
The stuff to which Teri was referring had many names. Names such as election fraud, election interference, or election corruption. And their positive spins, like election security, election integrity, or election reform. 

I didn’t exactly say no. “Well, I don’t want to take anyone’s spot.”
“You can take mine.” 

Although this was my first visit to this county government center, I’d worn a sport coat and had even on the drive rehearsed what I might say, if given the chance to speak. If I was going to run for secretary of state, I needed to start walking the walk and talking the talk. Statesman, not politician. Maybe this was why my heart rate had elevated moments ago, upon catching sight of the fortress. Inside that keep a small group of men and women made decisions each week which affected tens of thousands of people in the county and oversaw a sizable budget. It was becoming apparent they weren’t used to those who lived on the land in these parts showing up to ask questions during their county commissioner board meetings. “Sure,” I said confidently, “I can say a few words.”

Teri’s face lit up. “Great!” Before I could respond, she promptly made for the entrance to ensure my name would get on the open forum list.

A minute or so later, under the security camera over my shoulder, I took a deep breath as I pushed through the double glass doors into a spacious lobby. I asked someone at the front desk for directions to the commissioner board room. “It’s this way,” said a man from behind me. I walked with him and introduced myself to, as it turned out, Felix Schmiesing, one of the commissioners, who would retire later in 2022. Across the country, Felix became one of many elected officials who chose not to run for re-election, for various reasons, some better than others.

Inside the board room, about two dozen chairs, some already occupied, were spaced two to three feet apart in three rows. These were situated facing the expansive crescent-shaped commissioner desk, where which several commissioners were readying themselves. Behind them stood the American flat and the original Minnesota flag.
Beneath the Sherburne County logo, the Chair called for an official moment of silence. For what, I wasn’t sure. After this and the pledge of allegiance, the meeting began. The Chair then asked if anyone would like to approve the regular meeting proposed agenda. At this point another commissioner asked if there were changes. County Administrator Bruce Messelt, who sat at a lower desk to the commissioners’ left, perked up on cue to present an amendment to the regular meeting’s consent agenda to add a premises gambling permit to the Carefree Country Club, the RBA for which had been sent the prior evening to the county staff. A motion was made and seconded to add this item to the consent agenda; no commissioner voted against it. Finally, a motion was made and seconded to approve the consent agenda. Et voilà! That’s how easy it was to get something on the agenda and passed.

Next, Administrator Messelt shared the announcements, several relating to the legislative session. None pertaining to election reform were raised, not that anyone expected there to be.

By the time I first publicly spoke about elections, on that day, there still were no proper nor complete audits done in Minnesota's 2020 election, for any race, except perhaps by Commander-in-Chief Donald J. Trump’s Space Force, although election contests had been filed for congressional races. On the transparency front, there was also a petition put filed on November 24, 2020 pursuant to Minnesota Statute 204B.44 Errors and Omissions to stop the certification of Minnesota’s 2020 election, although that was dismissed by Judge Gildea even though Judge Dietzen had been assigned to give an opinion. The dismissal, with prejudice, on account of not serving all the counties—absurd in my book, since it was the five-member MN State Canvassing board that is constitutionally responsible for the canvass—came on December 4, just four days before the safe harbor deadline. What might have happened if their was legitimate hold-up from Minnesota causing it to miss safe harbor? 

Later, Judge Dietzen would reside over the disciplinary hearing for Susan Shogren-Smith, in April 2024, where for three days testimony from the likes of Judge Castro and Jose Jimenez was heard. Maybe for the first time, the story of the coordination all across Minnesota to attend post-election reviews, the revelations of evidence gathering such as was done by Jane Volz and others in Dakota County’s Precinct 4950 where Dominion printers arrived on the day of the audit where 800 ballots were missing (with records showing  the county had tried to divert the printers), and the difficult preparation of the election contests and the petition to stop certification.
Building on the evidence shared in that petition was the fact that, according to Rick, there were 734,000 absentee ballots not yet connected to a voter in the statewide voter registration system (SVRS) on November 29, a mathematical impossibility, unless… To make matters worse, November 29th was twenty-five days after the 2020 election and five days after the Minnesota State Canvassing Board met to certify the election. Detractors from this argument would point out that there was no statute that required this work to be done in a timely manner. It was learned, however, that it took only one click of a button to complete the data transfer which synced county and state systems. No one who was responsible for carrying out this work would go on record to explain why this took as long as it had, and continued to take, in the 2022 midterms to come. Rick was often heard saying, “Transparency is the inoculation against conspiracy theories.” As it turned out, if anything, transparency decreased as more questions were asked and in 2023 electronic tabulators were mandated in Minnesota (for any precincts that had previously used them) and the ballot images (of cast vote records) were classified as non-public data after many county auditors and attorneys had denied their existence or suggested they didn’t need to be produced, possibly on recommendation from the Office of the Secretary of State (OSS) itself.

I only learned about the 734,000 number more than half way through 2021. Perhaps a bit more publicized was James O'Keefe's work which had highlighted potentially illegal ballot harvesting activities in Minneapolis, a video on which was publishing September 2020. When I asked James about this at his January 2022 event, he said it was a tough story to get. I said, probably ambitiously, that I hoped to finish what they started. Although this writing is aimed at chronicling some of the corruption, so that another angle can be seen and those faults that did occur can be highlighted.
While the petition to stop the certification of the 2020 election had been dismissed quickly in December 2020 by the Minnesota Supreme Court, the details of that petition had all since proven true.

After the announcements, it was time for open forum, our chance to speak, and my first ever chance at the podium before a commissioner board. But before we could light the room up with truth about the broken election process and systems, we had to wait for the rules to be read. They were not brief.

Administrator Messelt did the honors: “Open forum is established. And the purpose is to allow for public input and or information to be presented to the county board that does not require action of the county board at the meeting. Personal attacks of any kind against another person, a commissioner, or an employee, are not allowed. 

“Campaign-type presentations are also not allowed. Time is limited to three minutes per speaker, with a maximum of five speakers, and the board has said seven speakers today. The time limit may be shortened or extended at the discretion of the board chair. Discussions that require additional time beyond the original fifteen minutes will be recessed and continued following the conclusion of the regular board business meeting. All input and information is to be addressed to the board of commissioners as a whole, not to individual commissioners, and not to members of the audience. Speaker handouts are public information. The county may make copies of such handouts for the public, if needed. And if there are handouts, the clerk of the board can accept them and distribute them for you. 

“The county board chair will ensure that the open forum policy is followed. Please note that any information provided to the county board that is subject to a public hearing will not be considered at the board during public comment. You are asked to write or submit your comments in accordance with the instructions for the public hearing to ensure your opinion becomes part of the record for consideration. 

“And in addition, with the number of speakers, if there are more than seven, we do ask that you consider a spokesperson to speak, and then let it be known that you share the same view.”

This all could have been said quite concisely: You can speak for a bit, but we don’t have to listen to nor do anything about what you say, no matter how interesting or important. 

That fact, of course, hadn’t stopped this small group from attending these meetings for some months prior to my first visit. This was happening in other counties in Minnesota. And in other states. 

I didn’t know what others were going to say, but as I awaited my turn—I would speak fifth—I was pleased with both the content and clarity with which they spoke. Even though it was unclear whether or how well the commissioners were listening and understanding, it seemed to me that something very interesting was happening here. It was the reemergence of a conversation between the people and the representatives they had elected, who served them. Of course, this understanding had been lost by many Americans, those outside and in office, and I for one did not comprehend the severity of my misunderstanding this vital relationship: in a republic, which the state of Minnesota is, those elected are meant to work for and to serve the people.

Gary Tonsager of Elk River spoke first. He provided reasons why the commission should not renew the contract with Dominion. He touched on the Election Assistance Commission (EAC) certification, the connectivity of electronic voting equipment, and oddities in the voter rolls. On this last point, it was explained that someone had moved into Gary’s house in 2015 (though Gary had never met him) and was possibly still voting in elections. That would have been peculiar enough if it were not also true that this man was dead. So prevalent was this pattern across the state and in many states that a term was coined to describe it: phantom voters. The idea was that phantom voters could be turned on and off in the voter rolls and made to cast votes in the system, either through a mail-in ballot or during (or immediately after) an election, by purely electronic means. (David Clements’ documentary Let My People Go explains this well.)
Next, Kari Watkins of St. Cloud spoke about how electronic voting equipment, from any vendor, was vulnerable to subversion, referencing a recent Nye County, Nevada commissioner meeting where computer experts spoke on that topic. She requested the machines be removed and hand counts be resumed to tally votes in upcoming elections. I would come to admire Kari greatly, and so would the county staff, in a manner of speaking, so much so that they improperly removed her from the county commissioner ballot later that year ahead of the 2022 midterms. 

Steve Nelson of Elk River came next. “I know that computers do what you tell them to do…” he began. “…What I am saying though, is you need to be cautious about who you align with. You are responsible, you have a fiduciary duty, and by aligning with Dominion, and with the exposure of some of these problems with these machines, you put yourselves at risk. And I’m only here to remind you that you need to take that very seriously, because it’s not their name on the elections, it’s yours.” I would later come to learn from a researcher that the county’s contract with Dominion lapsed during a period in 2022 where it was still doing business with the machine vendor, just one of several key and surprising missteps that were unearthed.

Bret Collier of Big Lake Township then presented a resolution he’d written to move away from electronic voting equipment calling attention to Minnesota Statute 206.58 Subd. 3. Authorization of Use, which gives county boards in Minnesota the option to use, or not use, electronic voting equipment. Later, in 2023, perhaps in response to the well-articulated solution to the vulnerabilities of such equipment, the 93rd Legislature passed an amended statute stating that now any precinct which has used electronic voting equipment was now bound to continue doing so. An example of an ex post facto law which should give jurisdictions one last chance not to use them if they so choose in 2024.

As Brett’s comments came to a close, I shifted in my seat and tried to remember the main points that I wanted to share. I didn’t know how I’d get it all down to three minutes. The thread around the lower jacket button had loosened, causing the button to hang lopsided. I wound the button’s thread several times, hoping that it and my imminent speech would not embarrassingly unravel. At the very least, I didn’t want to make Teri regret giving me her place in the lineup.

I heard my name being called and caught up with myself already approaching the podium. Before I spoke, I paused to take in the scene. To my right, the three rows of chairs had mostly filled. By the door, the bailiff stood, facing in. To his right, the county administrator, the county attorney, and the commissioners, all the way round to the lower section to my left where the clerk, who had just announced me as Erik von Mesh-ellen, a common mispronunciation, waited to start the clock.

“Hi, my name’s Erik van Mechelen,” I began, meeting the eyes of the nearest commissioner, Felix. “Thank you, commissioners, for this. I live down in Hennepin County.”

My next sentence was a long one. “And it was said recently by Jeffrey O’Donnell, a data analyst with about forty years of experience, who was contracted by the Tina Peters legal team, over in Mesa County, Colorado, to analyze the before and after forensic images of the Dominion systems in their county, very similar to the Dominion systems which are used here, he said ‘Not since the Manhattan Project had so many experts, whether they be cybersecurity, whether they be network or IT, whether they be data analysts like himself, not since the Manhattan Project had so many experts focused on a singular problem.’ Now what is that problem? Well, it’s the rigged and stolen election of 2020. And we’ve heard a bit from the other speakers on the details of these particular systems. 

“There have been some discussions about voter ID, the issues about absentee ballots with the consent decrees, and numerous other cases of abnormalities, improprieties, even abuse, if we look next door with True the Vote’s reporting on Wisconsin’s ballot trafficking. But I would submit to you that those are all side issues, when we consider that these election machines, with the backdoors that Mark Cook described in Nye County last month at their county commissioners meeting, with the backdoors that are available to ultimately select up and down the ballot the candidates that will represent us in public office. So it is critical that the machines are focused upon and due diligence is done. 

“Now, it’s a bit awkward coming before you, with the internet, not knowing how much you already know. But I would submit to you that you are in a great position to gather that information to make an informed decision and also be a standard for Minnesota. You could be the commissioners of a county, the first one of all eighty-seven in Minnesota, to make the decision to move away from election machines of any kind going forward in an election. And what a wonderful thing that would be. You would go down in history, frankly, for making that decision. So, I wish you well and godspeed to you.”

I sat down feeling a bit of relief because I’d said the majority of what I wanted to say. Besides several run-on sentences, my message was clear and my tone had been fair. Sure, I’d spoken about the rigged and stolen 2020 election, verbiage none of the other speakers had used, but overall I’d been relatively soft-spoken and instead of criticizing them for still using Dominion software and hardware, I had tried to encourage the board to make a first-of-its-kind decision for the state of Minnesota. 

The commissioners had made eye contact, but how much they had listened was debatable. What was certain was that they asked no questions. Given the lengthy rules laid out in advance for the public form period, the absence of questions could be interpreted in several ways, and it isn’t too hard to imagine that each commissioner’s silence carried its own weight and variation. Furthermore, if someone was listening and understanding, in that political climate, it wouldn’t necessarily do any good for them to reveal they had been persuaded. After that, I learned to pay much closer attention to subtle non-verbals: breathing patterns, blinks, side-long glances, and stature, because it was rare for anyone to open their mouth in response during these open forum comments.

Since the board had graciously decided to allow more than five speakers, after two more speakers, including one who spoke counter to us, questioning Rick’s website, Midwest Swamp Watch, Teri spoke. “We have been collecting petitions to remove the Dominion machines and go back to hand counting paper ballots in our precincts. We want to depend on the (paper) poll books, not the electronic poll pads which give realtime updates to the Secretary of State’s Office and the television news. We are asking that you please schedule a public hearing so that we can present evidence that will convince you not to invest another estimated $600,000 more in the Dominion-type equipment. And we are asking that you do not get a quickie certification before the constituents have an opportunity to discuss these issues with our county commissioners… And also, on May 3rd, we’re having a rally out front before the county commissioner meeting. Let’s make this a celebration that our county commissioners listened to the voices of the constituents, heard what we had to say, evaluated the evidence, and stood for liberty with the constituents of Sherburne County. I appreciate your time, and look forward to a public hearing or workshop.”

When Teri finished speaking, the Chair asked the County Administrator if he would refer the questions about the voting issues to the appropriate authorities, and he agreed to review the information received. Did that mean he was the authority, or someone else? The issue of who has authority with regard to matters of election administration at the county level was at that time pertinent, given unanswered or deflected public data requests for election records around the state. The question of authority would arise in earnest in Rice County through a lawsuit filed by Matthew Benda in Benda for Common-sense v. Anderson, which also addressed modems in tabulators.

Having been in Dakota County for commissioner meetings, I was not holding my breath in hopes of some movement from the commissioners. The general feeling, in so many of these meetings, was of nothing happening, at least it might be to a casual observer. Perhaps that is why the press rarely showed up. But they would, in numbers, in this very room, in less than three months’ time.

If someone had shown up to a commissioner meeting for the first time that day, without any knowledge of the situation, besides the fact that elections need to be transparent in order to be trusted, and heard what was said, I could not have faulted him for expecting a different outcome. Because, if the commissioners were told their electronic voting equipment was insecure, and if it was their responsibility to do something about it, and if they were offered a written resolution, that if voted upon, would be the beginning of solving the problem, then surely they would at least consider, if not jump positively out of their seats, at the opportunity, right? 

No, none of the commissioners would make any hasty decisions. Not yet, anyway. 
If the board had so much as inched toward true election integrity on April 19th, 2022, this would be a different story. 

In the parking lot, my sport coat was a welcome buffer against the forty-degree air, and its gray blend matched the cloud cover and the mood I both felt and sensed in the other speakers as we debriefed. 

Sure, it was good to see Teri again, and to meet Gary, Kari, Steve, Brett, and the rest of those attending in support. As I lost old friends in 2021 and 2022, these men and women would become my new ones. I also looked forward to attending the rally in two weeks.

But what bothered me as I turned on the Jeep was this: I didn’t see how we were any closer to election reform which would give us the election integrity required for trustworthy elections that a representative republic depends on to change its public servants. Of course, by looking into the election system, I was only scratching the surface of the greater control systems in place.

Driving away, in my rear view mirror, the hand that was the government center was still wrapped securely around its power. Only upon reaching cruising speed on the highway was I able to break loose of its gravitational pull on my being. And yet the question lingered… How on Earth were we going to pry open such a tightly held grip?


