# Chapter One - Andrei Calls

On the 104th day of the year 2022, moments after a raven landed on the tree behind my neighbor’s house in south Minneapolis, Minnesota, though I did not yet see it, Andrei called. For him, I picked up as often as I could, regularly staying on the phone for dozens of minutes if not hours, although commonly ending our calls on interesting numbers like 36m9s or 1h17m.

Just as we may thank Our Heavenly Father, so to speak, each day we wake up, and embrace the fact that there is no telling where the day may lead us, there was no telling where my conversations with Andrei would go, which is part of what makes things interesting. As it turned out, this phone call would change my life.

Andrei was a survivor of Nicolae Ceausescu’s communist orphanages in Romania, unlike 95 percent of other children who went through that supply chain. Although he lived through possibly inhumane conditions to be adopted at age three, his life arguably got a lot tougher joining the American family which purchased him for $13,000.

We were both in our early 30s when we met online and we’re still yet to meet face to face, although it’s possible we knew each other in a previous life cycle. Not long after, he’d become a mentor, teaching me about many things, from America’s corrupt history to inspirational bible study, but mostly about information. What is information really? And how it is it used? Abused?

His teaching on information was fitting, because Q post 3614 had said simply, Information warfare, below a link to a Twitter account that Andrei had run, although which he would sometimes say Yeshua ran, the holy spirit tweeting through him. The post in question has been seen by a great many: it is a video which depicts news anchors repeating, “This is extremely dangerous to our democracy.” (Thankfully, with each passing day, more and more understand the difference between a democracy and a republic.)

Across all platforms Andrei’s work had garnered about 170 million views or impressions before the government censorship began just one week after going live with his proof-of-concept research utility which gave the public a searchable JFK assassination files collection, in 2019, a service the National Archives was unable to provide despite decades of foreknowledge, as already in 1992 Congress declared the files be declassified.

I didn’t know about Andrei’s childhood, background in tech, nor his current work when we first encountered one another in the summer of 2021. At this point he had already changed his name back to Andrei, dropping Michael, which was imposed upon him by his adopted parents, causing myriad issues. This is relevant from the perspective that so many of us, if not almost all of us—certainly me—were and are trying to sort out who we are and what we’re doing here. We’re all given a name, a race—if you want to go there—and even a religion, at birth. Do these help or hinder us? 
On that day, by the end of the phone call, Andrei had given me a new idea, a kind of conveyance of meaning, to let go of who I was and become who I could be. The feeling I had was: Do it, Erik!

As was customary, the phone call covered current events and transitioned into an update on Project Apario, which was coming along nicely but still beset with issues that would later be resolved in magnificent fashion—beginning with idoread.com being published in January 2024—though almost all of that story is outside the scope of this one. It’s even unclear if Andrei will continue in ‘tech’ as we know it, since his calling may now be elsewhere. 

On the proof-of-concept, in addition to the JFK files, were at least 36 other collections, everything from the Clinton and Podesta emails to the Tesla Files. I particularly enjoyed the latter, and in one journal notice from the 1950s or 1960s found mention of a book by Margaret Storm called Return of the Dove, which besides telling stories about Nikola Tesla, also told a story of Yeshua’s role in showing us all that ascension was indeed possible, with the help of his mother Mary who Andrei has suggested was Sophia herself come to play a part. I soon picked up a short autobiography of Tesla’s and was amazed by his childhood explorations and inventions, and then further delighted by his approach to invention, which was to iterate upon the initial idea first in his mind, many times if needed, before acquiring the physical materials to conduct the experiment. This of course saved time and investment, but it also meant that once he had actually built an apparatus, it usually worked because he had already turned it ‘on’ in his mind. 

It was also attributed to Tesla that “if you only knew the magnificence of three, six, and nine, you would have a key to the universe.” But at this point my study on such was nascent and practically limited to typing 369 on the microwave instead of 409 for a 4-minute cook.

Alongside my election research, I’d been supporting Andrei in small ways, mostly through encouragement and conversations, but occasionally with posts summarizing content from collection sets to be posted on the Project Apario Telegram channel. These covered topics ranging from the JFK files to Peter Daszak’s EcoHealth Alliance, the latter which funneled US taxpayer funds to look for viruses in Southeast Asia that could be spread elsewhere. It was Andrei who walked me through Vault 7, first released publicly by Julian Assange starting March 2017, although I was not yet aware that Julian Assange was a gematria match for Erik of Texas, a variation of my name which makes sense given that I was born in Houston. (Erik of Texas is ‘A Name That Is Fitting’, also a gematria match for Erik of Texas, because Erik van Mechelen, in Dutch, simply means, Erik of Mechelen, which is both a village in the south of the Netherlands and a modest-sized city in Belgium, both of which I’m yet to visit. And even though I’d also lived in Gabon, Indonesia, and China during my youth, the seventeenth and eighteenth year of my life in Texas, before graduating high school in the communist capital, Beijing, was influential on my character outside of the fact that there are also family lines going back in Asia.)

Toward the end of the call I shared my frustration with the election goings-on. How hard could it be to do an actual audit? Why were the systems, the legal systems, the electronic systems, and the administrative systems handed down by Minnesota’s secretary of state, seemingly designed to obscure any path to a simple reconciliation?

Even though there were grassroots leaders emerging, recent county commissioner meetings I’d attended in the metro collar counties just weren’t going anywhere fast. The commissioners didn’t seem to get how broken the election system was or else knew and were effectively appeasing us by hearing us out in very limited ways. Nor did they seem to understand that our election system was likely broken by design. Without clearly seeing the problem, educating them on their authority to take back control of local elections wasn’t going to work, at least not at a rate that would satisfy my impatience, and there was another election coming up…

Responding to this, Andrei offered a solution: “You should run for Minnesota Secretary of State.” 

Do WHAT? I slowly, simply, laughed. But a chord had been struck which would resonate through the next weeks and months of my life, waking up a child who had been sleeping. 
“I mean it,” he went on. “You care about election integrity. You could help a lot of people learn about all this by running for that office. And Erik, I don’t see you as a politician. We don’t need more of those. We do need statesmen.” 

“I don’t know. How am I going to win what could be a rigged election?” 

“You could get President Trump’s endorsement. Not that you could rely on that. But you could learn a lot by listening to Trump speak. His grammar is what conveys the messages. You could learn to speak like him. That would be powerful. But don’t get me wrong, you’re probably not going to win. But there are still very good outcomes that could result from you merely running.” 

I looked up the filing period, which was about three weeks away. “It looks like filing starts on May 17th.”

“Well isn’t that a nice number?” 

I smiled. “Okay, okay… Maybe I’ll consider it.”

Just speaking those words sent a small tremor through me. This was crazy, of course. In a bold way? In a bats in the belfry way? Maybe it was a bit of both. Whatever the case, I wasn’t dismissing it. Someone who was running for office had to speak about broken election laws and basic election integrity in Minnesota. So far the two Republican secretary of state candidates weren’t, and the GOP’s endorsement convention was less than a month away, with the candidate filing deadline to follow.

The role of Secretary of State in Minnesota, and many states, was the chief election officer, responsible for administering elections, certifying them, and partnering with county election officials across the state. The office did more than that, but elections were what I cared about. It happened to a be such a key role that George Soros provided funding to a number of the campaigns which seated the slate of secretaries of state that led us through 2020 and beyond. 

The functions of the secretaries of state, and the attorney generals, were top of mind because without a mechanism to change representatives, it didn’t seem like we would have a republic for much longer—if we even still had it, what with the infiltration likely starting at least in earnest in the Sixties. The SOS and AG were two roles that were critical in upholding the integrity of the process.

It just so happened that the man currently sitting in the secretary’s seat for Minnesota had helped to make elections far less secure in 2020 by participating in the scheme whereby he was sued by the NAACP and LaRose leading to the consent decrees which waived the witness signature requirements for absentee mail-in ballots and extended the deadline for receiving them. 

The floodgates had been opened. All told, 60 percent of Minnesota’s ballots being absentee or mail-in, which helped “Biden” receive 1,717,077 votes, according to the certified totals, improving upon Clinton by 349,252 votes, a record, despite Trump picking up votes. Secretary Simon, who was the Vice Chair of the Democratic Association of Secretaries of State, and who would in October appear on the cover of Time Magazine, declared the 80 percent voter turnout a resounding success. He had then declined to audit Crow Wing County after the people showed up in five or six consecutive county commissioner meetings demanding one be done to the point that the commissioners passed a resolution to that effect, if the Secretary of State would help them… That was in early January of 2022: Surprising no one, he said that he would not help with that audit, and has continued to make elections even more ‘secure’ since, cheering on changes the 93rd and 94th Minnesota Legislature made which reduced transparency by making ballot images non-public and less flexible by mandating electronic machine tabulators be used to process, count, and tally votes, for precincts that had previously used them.

When Andrei and I said goodbye, I leaned back in the orange Ikea chair and took in the blank, white wall, painted alongside my wife and her dad across three days during Thanksgiving 2020, of the small second-floor bedroom that was my office and would later be our son’s nursery. The canvas had so much potential, but my wife Liz and I had barely dared to hang anything up despite living in the house almost two years by that point. Sure, the incident eighteen blocks away on 38th and Chicago, the so-called pandemic—which seemed to allow President Trump to become a Wartime President (which he seems to remain) two weeks after Proclamation 9994 on March 13, 2020 through the March 27th Executive Order 13912—and the 2020 election were slight distractions, but not really an excuse for not adding some character and texture to our home. 
I didn’t know this until years later, but our house sat in an area whose swamp had been drained about 100 years prior, in the 1920s. The land stayed dry thanks to pipes that fed the water into nearby Diamond Lake. It was now one of those beautiful little neighborhoods in South Minneapolis where the people cared about where they lived. Change was indeed possible.

Afternoon light entered the curtain-less window behind me, to which I turned. Just in time to see a raven leaping from a branch, taking flight. The leaves fluttered in the gentle breeze and I did not recognize in them the golden ratio nor the fact that from a certain angle some would also remind me later of the vesica piscis, notably found in the flower of life, which encapsulates triangles with 30, 60, and 90 degrees as well as the ratio for phi (~6.28). 

The date was April 14th, 2022, a Thursday. There were 117 days between that day and the August 9 primary, if I was to run. With my laptop still open, my thoughts traced the open tabs of client book writing that needed attention. The modernization of cloud computing, finding financial freedom, and garage gym revolutions. Modernization, freedom, and revolution seemed to be on the wind and in the water, but I didn’t know how much more work on those books I’d get done, not with the idea that had just taken hold in my mind.

I phoned my brother. “Hey, Ryan, want to go for dinner tomorrow?”